





>code fuji mvp small
[x]keyboard keys, mouse wheel
[x]full screen and back
[]diamond size
[]alphebetize folder




today in fuji
- see if you can get a css background on a single gpu layer
- clear off drafting table and draft the new simpler arrow system for diamond formation; maybe think about the other modes
- code the hud on spacebar

try the polkadot pattern and understand the layout gpu implications
code the caption and huds
[x]background ride along pattern; [x]gpu layer implications
[x]embossed ride along caption, so cool; [x]gpu layer implications
and then the float over HUDs
[x]current zoom or gamma, upper right, during drag
[x]all details, bottom left, toggle with spacebar
[x]help, upper left, toggle with H key



fuji notes

getting things setup on mac and windows first time
going to keep plugin-fs, but not crazy permissions for it


according to devtools in my tauri renderer window:
screen.width 2560
screen.height 1440
window.devicePixelRatio 2 (this is a ratio between what and what??)
let's call these "CSS pixels"

according to macos settings displays:
2560x1440
let's call these "os looks like pixels"

according to the cardboard box i took my monitor out of:
3840 x 2160
let's call these "hardware pixels"













ok, im working on fuji, a multimedia file manager for desktop mac and windows and rpi, built in js and rust using tauri. so there are instances where id like to save a note about a file, so fuji can find it later, and move faster, without having to repeat steps. for instance, in a folder of images, fuji can calculate the sha256 hash sum of each file, and render the file to get its natural width and height pixel dimensions. it can do this for every file in every new folder the user navigates it to, but this will be time consuming to repeat

ok, so one solution is to have a database, centralized, keeping records of this metadata. another is to create my own hidden file, .fuji or something, and scatter that everywhere, just like (and often alongside) .ds_store. but then in the shower i had this crazy idea: is the format within ds store extensible? can i, for instance, without breaking any rules or conventions, add my own fuji application specific details to existing ds_store files, or make new ones in new folders that don't have them yet

this way, i won't have to make my users ignore or hide yet another file like ds_store—i can ride along inside there, letting apple take all the blame for being annoying!







Fuji. For your desktop app’s folder tagging feature, we’re using platform-native metadata APIs to store a UUID directly on the folder itself—leveraging extended attributes (`xattr`) on macOS (APFS) and alternate data streams (ADS) on Windows (NTFS).

more thinking and folder tagging won't work at all
the user can copy a folder, for instance, then there are two folders with the same tag!
so maybe it is xattr and ads on files after all
only use cached data there if the last modified date hasn't changed
and only cache data there that is specific to the file and its contents, not user supplied metadata
minimal stuff, like hash, quickhash, image dimensions
















